View all Web Publishing Support Articles
Web Publishing: Embedding Images in the WCM
Overview
Many of Sac State’s T4 and T5 pages have embedded images, either as decorative images that show off different areas
of campus or more directly related images to that department (See Fig 1). In every case, certain considerations need to be
made when embedding an image in Cascade. Most of the work you’ll do with images will be done outside of Cascade. In
this article, we’ll show you where to find web team-approved images, how to adjust image properties, show where an
image can be embedded, and how to properly upload and embed the image.
Instructions
Finding and Preparing Images
There are many sites where you can find images, stock photography, or decorative snapshots, but we recommend using
the Sac State Flickr since those are pre-vetted images of our campus and community.
Fig 1.
1. Open your web browser and navigate to the Sac State Flickr account.
2. Locate the image you would like to embed in your site.
There are images that are landscape orientation, in which the width is greater than the height, and portrait
orientation, in which the height is greater than the width. Consider the space you’ll be embedding the image into
before deciding on your preferred orientation.
3. Select the picture, and then use the download icon to bring up the download size options.
4. Select any option larger than 1000 pixels for normal embedded photos. For a banner image, 2000 pixels will be
needed.
5. Once the image is downloaded, resize the image to make it about 1000 pixels wide. The WCM does not do this
automatically, so resizing the image down to 1000 pixels wide can help improve the site's load time. The process is a
10/1/25, 1:14 PM
Web Publishing: Embedding Images in the WCM | IRT Web & Mobile Services Buzz Hub
https://mysacstate.sharepoint.com/sites/irt-wms/SitePages/articles/web-publishing-embedding-images-in-the-wcm.aspx
1/3

Related Articles
See all
Web Publishing: Embedding
Images in the WCM | IRT…
Stewart, Portia Edited August 13
IRT Web & Mobile Services Bu…
Make sure that you save the image file type as JPG, as this will compress the image and make sure it's viewable on a wide
variety of devices. A few other formats are allowed as well, but avoid large, less compatible file formats like Photoshop
PSD files, which can be gigabytes in size depending on the image.
Upload
With your image chosen and now prepped for uploading, the next step is to upload the image to the WCM (Cascade).
Upload Location
NOTE: If the image has not been uploaded before, then proceed to the next step. However, if the image has already
been uploaded, you can select it from the “Browse” menu instead.
Site Location
You can embed an image in a T4 or T5 page in different sections, either by itself, or as part of text in a “what you see is
what you get,” or WYSWYG text area.
An image can be embedded as an image by itself in a T4 in the top right box, or the bottom left box. It can also be
embedded as a part of a WYSWYG section in any quadrant except the top left.
In a T5, you can elect to make a “two-column” page, which allows for an “Image only” or WYSWYG option on the right
column, similar to the T4. There’s also an option for a two-column showcase, which allows an image as a header and a
one column showcase which also allows images as headers. These pre-made template choices will help make it easier to
consistently display images on your site.
little different for Mac and PC users.
PC- Find the downloaded image in file explorer, and right click to select open with -> 3D Paint. Once the image is
in Paint 3D, select “Canvas” from the top menu, and then reduce the width to 1000 pixels. This will automatically
reduce the height as well to maintain the image’s aspect ratio. Close out of Paint 3D and save changes.
Mac- Open the image in the “Preview” application, then select Tools -> Adjust Size from the Application menu.
From there, change the width and height measurement to pixels, and then set the width to 1000. The height will
adjust automatically to preserve the image’s aspect ratio. Click File -> Save and you’re done!
1. Open your web browser, navigate to the webpage that you want to add the image to, and click the Green Dot in the
bottom left corner of the footer to login.
2. Click the Edit pencil icon in the top right of the page.
3. Navigate to the section you want to edit.
4. If the Content Type is “Image Only," then click the “Choose File” area to open the file upload column. Otherwise, place
your cursor where you would like the image to appear and click the "Insert/Edit Image" icon in the WYSWYG toolbar.
1. Select “Upload” from the tabs at the top of the upload column. From here, you can click and drag the image into the
box marked with the dotted line, or click “choose” to open a file select window.
2. Now choose the placement folder. Since we navigated to the page we’re going to upload a photo to, the WCM should
automatically choose the folder for you. It’s best to check that the image is being uploaded to the correct location
though. Check the breadcrumb navigation in the middle of the column, and then choose_ internal > _images as the
placement folder.
3. Update the Image description so that it is a short and descriptive description of the image (web accessibility
requirement).
4. Click “Choose” at the top of the column, and the image will begin uploading.
5. Save and preview, make sure the page looks the way you intended, then publish the page to queue the changes for
publication on the site. It sometimes takes the WCM a few minutes to publish changes.
10/1/25, 1:14 PM
Web Publishing: Embedding Images in the WCM | IRT Web & Mobile Services Buzz Hub
https://mysacstate.sharepoint.com/sites/irt-wms/SitePages/articles/web-publishing-embedding-images-in-the-wcm.aspx
2/3

Need Assistance?
Web Publishing: Embedding
Videos in the WCM | IRT…
Stewart, Portia Edited August 13
IRT Web & Mobile Services Bu…
Web Publishing: Using the
Gallery Content Type | IRT…
Stewart, Portia Edited August 13
IRT Web & Mobile Services Bu…
Web Publishing: Adding
Handshake Job Listings o…
Stewart, Portia Edited August 13
IRT Web & Mobile Services Bu…

Submit an IRT Ticket
10/1/25, 1:14 PM
Web Publishing: Embedding Images in the WCM | IRT Web & Mobile Services Buzz Hub
https://mysacstate.sharepoint.com/sites/irt-wms/SitePages/articles/web-publishing-embedding-images-in-the-wcm.aspx
3/3
